specs/105-disable-vercel-pr-deployments.md, before:

# Spec: Disable Vercel PR Deployments

## Purpose

Prevent Vercel preview deployments from running on pull requests to avoid hitting Vercel deployment rate limits too early.

## Requirements

- [ ] Vercel auto-deploy must be enabled only for the `main` branch.
- [ ] Non-`main` branches must not trigger Vercel deployments (including PR branches).
- [ ] A repo-local validation command must fail if the Vercel deploy policy is misconfigured.

## API Contract (if applicable)

N/A - no API contract changes in this spec.

## Data Model (if applicable)

N/A - no model changes in this spec.

## Files to Create/Modify

- `web/vercel.json`
- `scripts/validate_vercel_deployment_policy.py`
- `docs/DEPLOY.md`
- `docs/system_audit/commit_evidence_2026-02-17_disable-vercel-pr-deploys.json`

## Acceptance Tests

- `python3 scripts/validate_vercel_deployment_policy.py`

Manual validation (post-merge expectation):

- Open a PR from a non-`main` branch and confirm no new Vercel deployment is created for the PR branch.

## Verification

```bash
python3 scripts/validate_vercel_deployment_policy.py
python3 scripts/validate_commit_evidence.py --file docs/system_audit/commit_evidence_2026-02-17_disable-vercel-pr-deploys.json
```

## Out of Scope

- Changing Vercel dashboard settings directly.
- Disabling other CI workflows or providers.

## Risks and Assumptions

- Assumption: the Vercel project is configured to use `web/` as its root directory so it reads `web/vercel.json`.
- Risk: if Vercel ignores repo config for this project, deployments may still trigger; mitigation is to enforce the same rule in Vercel project settings.

## Known Gaps and Follow-up Tasks

- None at spec time.

## Decision Gates (if any)

None.

Commit message:

Ensure Vercel deploy policy applies from repo root

specs/105-disable-vercel-pr-deployments.md, after:

# Spec: Disable Vercel PR Deployments

## Purpose

Prevent Vercel preview deployments from running on pull requests to avoid hitting Vercel deployment rate limits too early.

## Requirements

- [ ] Vercel auto-deploy must be enabled only for the `main` branch (repo root or `web/` root-directory configurations).
- [ ] Non-`main` branches must not trigger Vercel deployments (including PR branches).
- [ ] A repo-local validation command must fail if the Vercel deploy policy is misconfigured.

## API Contract (if applicable)

N/A - no API contract changes in this spec.

## Data Model (if applicable)

N/A - no model changes in this spec.

## Files to Create/Modify

- `vercel.json`
- `web/vercel.json`
- `scripts/validate_vercel_deployment_policy.py`
- `docs/DEPLOY.md`
- `docs/system_audit/commit_evidence_2026-02-17_disable-vercel-pr-deploys.json`

## Acceptance Tests

- `python3 scripts/validate_vercel_deployment_policy.py`

Manual validation (post-merge expectation):

- Open a PR from a non-`main` branch and confirm no new Vercel deployment is created for the PR branch.

## Verification

```bash
python3 scripts/validate_vercel_deployment_policy.py
python3 scripts/validate_commit_evidence.py --file docs/system_audit/commit_evidence_2026-02-17_disable-vercel-pr-deploys.json
```

## Out of Scope

- Changing Vercel dashboard settings directly.
- Disabling other CI workflows or providers.

## Risks and Assumptions

- Assumption: the Vercel project is configured to use `web/` as its root directory so it reads `web/vercel.json`.
- Risk: if Vercel ignores repo config for this project, deployments may still trigger; mitigation is to enforce the same rule in Vercel project settings.

## Known Gaps and Follow-up Tasks

- None at spec time.

## Decision Gates (if any)

None.
